@c Part of the gnuclad texinfo manual


@node Usage Tips
@chapter Usage Tips

@section Input: CSV => Output: SVG

CSV spreadsheets can include SVG images, yet only the defs (gradients, etc) and
drawing data (paths, shapes, etc) are imported, @emph{not the header}.@*
This means that included images have to comply with the SVG XML used by
gnuclad.@*
If you think the current SVG header is missing something, please file
a bug detailing the problem.

CSV spreadsheets can also include PNG images, but keep in mind that raster images
are encoded in base64 and may result in a really huge output file.


@section Output: CSV

All nodes with a starting date newer than endOfTime (usually the current date)
will be ignored.
All nodes with a stopping date newer or the same as endOfTime will have
their stopping date removed (unset == "still alive").

For best results, the recommended optimisation is 0 and
treeMode conf setting is "lower inverse":
@example
  optimise = 0
  treeMode = 2
@end example
This way the trees will be grouped by children and sorted by date, while
your single nodes won't be mangled.


@section Optimisation - how it works

The optimisation parameter can be set to a value between 0 and 99.
0 turns off optimisation completely while 99 tries to stuff the resulting
image closely together.

The first digit refers to the optimisation factor for isolated nodes, those
which are not part of the tree. The higher it is, the more aggressively they
will be appended to each other.
The second digit sets the tree optimisation. Higher values will try to cramp the
tree together more than lower ones.

@section Optimisation - additional info

The current optimisation is greedy and therefore not exactly stellar.

For example, this optimises well:
@example
           4 -> 2
___          ->  ___ ___ ___
        ___  ->      _______
    _______  ->
    ___      ->

@end example
But a slightly different map doesn't (a human can easily reduce this to 2):
@example
           4 -> 3
___          ->  ___     ___
        ___  ->      _______
    _______  ->    _____
  _____      ->  
@end example
Sorting by start date (see config options) might help a bit.
