@c Part of the gnuclad texinfo manual


@node About
@chapter About

@section Contact

The most recent version of gnuclad and it's documentation can be
downloaded at @uref{https://launchpad.net/gnuclad}.

You can also file bugs and contact the developers there.

@section Purpose

gnuclad has been written to facilitate progress of the GNU/Linux distro
timeline project (GLDT) which can be found at @uref{http://futurist.se/gldt/}

Meanwhile it has become quite customisable and general application -
for example in genealogy or visualisation of hierarchical structures -
should be possible.

@section Formats

Supported input formats are: CSV spreadsheets

Supported output formats are: CSV and SVG

A sample CSV file should be distributed together with gnuclad.
It can be openend with any spreadsheet program; the field separator is
comma (,) and the text delimiter is double quote (").

The .conf file can be edited with any text editor of your choice.

@section Syntax

@example
gnuclad INPUTFILE OUTPUT[FORMAT|FILE] [CONFIGFILE]

  example: gnuclad table.CSV SVG
  example: gnuclad Data.csv result.csv alternative.conf
@end example

@cindex Getting Started
@section Getting started

If you downloaded the source code and don't know how to proceed, here are a
few detailed instructions.

Open the gnuclad folder in a terminal and type:
@example
  make
@end example

This will produce a 'gnuclad' binary in the bin folder.
Change to the bin folder and execute gnuclad to get
acquainted with it's syntax:
@example
  cd bin
  ./gnuclad -h
@end example

Change to the example folder and generate your first SVG image:
@example
  cd ../example
  ../bin/gnuclad example.csv svg example.conf
@end example

In order to install gnuclad on a POSIX conform system, change to the main
directory:
@example
  cd ..
  make install
@end example

Then restart your terminal. You should be able to call gnuclad from any folder.
If you wish to uninstall gnuclad, simply open a terminal in the main gnuclad
folder and execute:
@example
  make uninstall
@end example
