@c Part of the gnuclad texinfo manual


@node About
@chapter About

@section Contact

The most recent version of gnuclad and it's documentation can be
downloaded at @uref{https://launchpad.net/gnuclad}.

You can also file bugs and contact the developers there.

@section Purpose

gnuclad has been written to facilitate progress of the GNU/Linux distro
timeline project (GLDT) which can be found at @uref{http://futurist.se/gldt/}

Meanwhile it has become quite customisable and general application -
for example in genealogy or visualisation of hierarchical structures -
should be possible.

@section Formats

Supported input formats are: CSV spreadsheets

Supported output formats are: CSV, SVG and CONF

A sample CSV file is distributed together with gnuclad.
It can be openend with any spreadsheet program; the field separator is
comma (,) and the text delimiter is double quote ("). Please make sure you save
it that way.

The conf file can be edited with any text editor of your choice.

@section Syntax

@example
gnuclad INPUTFILE OUTPUT[FORMAT|FILE] [CONFIGFILE]

  example: gnuclad table.CSV SVG
  example: gnuclad Data.csv result.csv alternative.conf
@end example

@cindex Getting Started
@section Getting started

gnuclad is built with the GNU toolchain, specifically g++ and GNU make.
These are included in most GNU/Linux distributions and can be obtained
from the Xcode developer package on OSX.
On Windows, compilation works flawlessly with MinGW & MSYS, though it may be
possible with other compilers by tweaking the Makefile.

To compile gnuclad, open the gnuclad main folder in a terminal and type:
@example
  ./configure
  make
@end example

This will produce a 'gnuclad' binary in the bin folder.
Change to the bin folder and execute gnuclad to get
acquainted with it's syntax:
@example
  cd bin
  ./gnuclad -h
@end example

Change to the 'example' folder and generate your first SVG image:
@example
  cd ../example
  ../bin/gnuclad example.csv svg example.conf
@end example

In order to install gnuclad on a POSIX conform system, change to the main
directory:
@example
  cd ..
  make install
@end example

You should now be able to call gnuclad from any folder.
If you wish to uninstall gnuclad, simply open a terminal in that same
main gnuclad folder and execute:
@example
  make uninstall
@end example
