@c Part of the gnuclad texinfo manual


@node Writing a parser
@unnumberedsec



@section Adding a parser

Steps neccessary to add a parser.
XXX refers to the input format you want to implement.

src/parserXXX.h:
@example
#include "gnuclad.h"
derive class from Parser:
  class ParserXXX: public Parser
declare constructor and destructor
declare public method:
  void parseData(Cladogram * clad, InputFile & in);
@end example

src/parserXXX.cpp:
@example
#include "parserXXX.h"
implement constructor and destructor
implement parseData(Cladogram * clad, InputFile & in) @{ ... @}
@end example

src/gnuclad.cpp:
@example
#include "parserXXX.h"
update inFormats
add choser:
  else if(inputExt == "XXX") parser = new ParserXXX;
@end example

src/Makefile.am:
@example
add to SOURCES: parserXXX.h parserXXX.cpp
@end example


@c _____________________________________________________________________________


@section How to write a parser

Your parser is called only by this function:
@example
  parser->parseData(Cladogram * clad, InputFile & in);
@end example

Therefore it should implement the following one:
@example
  void ParserXXX::parseData(Cladogram * clad, InputFile & in) @{ ... @}
@end example

The InputFile object holds a correctly opened input file. It also holds the file
name in case your parser needs it. You can use the object like this:
@example
  ifstream * fp = in.p;
  // or
  ifstream & f = *(in.p);
  // or
  ifstream myfp(in.name);
@end example

The cladogram pointer is an empty Cladogram object that you have
to fill.
You should try to fill as much of it as possible in order to increase
the information pool for the output generator. Note that
not all generators will make use of every piece of data, and it all depends on
the options the user has set; the more information the better.

If you cannot fill a field, leave it empty and the generators will ignore it.
All measures (height, thickness, ...) are "generic units".

Objects created with the add*** functions will be allocated and later deleted
automatically.
It is important to use those functions for objects you wish to pass on to the
generator.


@*
Adding a Node:
@example
  Node * n = clad->addNode("MyFirstNode");
  n->color = Color("#a2b3c4");
  n->parentName = "";
  n->start =  Date(1993,8,1);
  n->stop = Date("2000.3");
  n->iconfile = "";
  n->description = "it rocks!";
  n->addNameChange("NewName", Date(1999,2,0), "it still rocks!")
@end example

@*
Adding a Connector (note that fromName and toName are expected to be existing
Node names at the end of the parser routine - you'll get an error otherwise):
@example
  Connector * c = clad->addConnector();
  c->fromWhen = Date(1997,0,0);
  c->fromName = "MyFirstNode";
  c->toWhen = Date("1997.5.1");
  c->toName = "MySecondNode";
  c->thickness = 3;
  c->color = Color(12,255,0);
@end example

@*
Adding a domain (note that the initialising name is expected to be an existing
Node name at the end of the parser routine - you'll get an error otherwise):
@example
  Domain * d = clad->addDomain("MyFirstNode");
  d->color = Color("#abc");
  d->intensity = 15;
@end example

@*
Adding an image (currently supported: SVG and PNG):
@example
  Image * image = clad->addImage("picture.svg", clad->includeSVG);
  image->x = 100;
  image->y = 50;

  Image * image = clad->addImage("somewhere/picture.png", clad->includePNG);
  image->x = 10;
  image->y = 500;
@end example
